I'm on now, okay?
Is it good to be outside?
No, this is great.
Actually, this is wonderful.
I love that.
We're talking to Ian Jackson.
How long have you been a bookseller?
Since graduating from college.
So from 1976.
So 20 years.
20 years.
And where did you go to school?
UC Santa Cruz.
University of Oakland, Santa Cruz.
And studied what?
Classics, well, Greek, classical Greek, and art history.
Okay.
And this is a bachelor's degree?
That's right, bachelor's degree.
I'm a lifelong enemy of education.
My father's a professor of physics.
Where?
And right here at Berkeley.
And I only went to college because... You'd have broken your wrist.
No, no, no.
They were willing to pay for me to go to college.
Otherwise, I would have had to get a job.
So why not go to college?
And Santa Cruz was an excellent university, particularly then.
There were no grades, and you could do whatever you want, lots of independent studies.
So basically I used the library, which was, it's quite a good library.
They bought Isaac Foote, who's the father of Michael Foote, the English labor politician.
I've had a lot of books, and I have no complaints.
But of course the subjects I study are absolutely useless from an employment point of view unless you go to grad school, because our
You know, you've got to get a PhD in Art History or Classics, and even then, certainly the Classics isn't all that important.
Anyway, I've always liked books.
I discovered I had a lot of... I never had a lot of money, but I had at least 1,000 books, or maybe 1,500, on graduating, and then I discovered you could sell them for more than you paid for them, and... My math, so if you graduated college in 1976, you're about 32 years old.
Oh, that's 20, I see.
My math is... No, no, I'm 45.
You're 45.
I'm 45.
My math.
Jet lag, math.
No, I actually think I graduated, no, I must have graduated in 70... No, yes, it must be earlier, right.
I graduated, no, I graduated in 70, maybe 73.
That's much more likely, 73.
But I didn't sell books for another year or two.
I continued to read books.
Okay, to read books, a lot of books.
Yeah, I've always read at least, well, in those days I would read maybe 12 hours a day.
Nowadays I'm down to reading only about five hours a day.
Following any kind of a program?
Well, I read a lot of lots of things.
I'm interested in, well, that's part of the reason I'm not such a successful bookseller compared to many.
I have far too many interests.
and you have to pursue something a little more narrowly than I do.
I'm interested in, well, I sell botanical books as my main subject, so I'm interested in the history of natural history.
I still have a bit of classics, although I've practically given up reading such things.
I read Italian books, French literature, English literature, a fair amount of biography history.
You said earlier, just before I put the tape recorder on, that you are an enemy of education.
I just like organized education.
I'm an enemy to institutionalization of anything, from religion to education.
I think it simply breeds vested interests.
I mean, you know, the early days of Veblen and the industrialization of education, and I think...
Again, I'm not a member of the ABAA, I wouldn't dream joining it, not even if it were a more admirable organization than it is.
The only societies that belong to are bibliographic societies, and they are all simply publishing societies.
You're basically subscribing to a journal.
I tend to think institutionalization of those things breeds careerists.
There are a great many people who simply go in for these things for the sake of...
a certain degree of, well, money, prestige, that sort of thing.
An old friend of ours who was a German émigré orientalist used to say that when she and her husband first, when they did anything in the 1930s, they did it because they wanted to do it.
Nowadays, they would meet the younger UC professor types who would never dream of even getting interested in anything until they
received a grant to do it.
And I would find that at universities, there are many a student who would say, I don't know anything about such and such, I think I'll take a class in it.
Now, they wouldn't dream of reading a book on the subject, but being lectured to was somehow a painless way of pouring the information in.
I've always had complete contempt for that sort of thing.
There are lots of books out there.
We have an excellent public library system.
If you're really interested in
Swedenborg, you can go out and at least read one book before you waste, I think, a professor's time lecturing your book.
And you know, the result is, of course, you get, particularly with undergraduate educators, extremely elementary lectures for people who really shouldn't be in the university.
In fact, I disapprove of the spread and debasement of higher education in this country.
Well,
That's very curious.
So what would you propose as an alternative?
Well, I think there are many people who aren't really suited to intellectual pursuits.
And what we've done is ruined a good blacksmith in order to make a rather poor junior college graduate.
I think everyone should be, you know, elementary education is fine.
Literacy is fine.
I think of a person as intellectual curiosity and has been taught to read.
and has opportunities.
Obviously, I believe in excellent public library system.
Again, that's going down the drain.
From then on, if you've got some curiosity, you can progress yourself.
Certain things like foreign languages are well taught by teachers, and I'm not saying dismantle elementary education, but there's so much.
It's like that Babar, all shall have prizes.
Everything in this country is run on a lowest common, unashamed elitist.
It's run on a lowest common denominator system where everyone's got to be happy.
It's like a driver's license.
Everyone in this country, virtually everyone, can get a driver's license.
Now, driver's license, driving requires some degree of skill, but we recognize that
forbid any significant percentage of people who aren't virtually legally blind from getting a driver's license is, you know, it ruins your ability to commute somewhere or something.
And it's an undue hardship.
So we've simply decided on a certain standard for getting a driver's license, which virtually ensures that everyone will get a driver's license.
And education is going that direction.
It's so that, you know, you virtually, since you need a BA, it's virtually worthless.
It's what a high school education was in the old days.
and even terminal NAs, which they give out.
I mean, there's people who can barely write English, who can barely string a sentence together, who have NAs.
And it contributes to a debasement of everything.
And I guess I'm certainly a great enemy of debasement of anything.
Peter said that you have one of the great bibliographical libraries.
I have a lot of books.
So having said what you just said about
organized education, tell me about your passion for books, and the study of books, and books as a, you know, you clearly are, you're self-educated as well, I think, is what you're telling me.
Yeah, that's perhaps true.
Well, even as though I've been through, you know, I've attended classes, and I've, you know, done... Things that interested you.
Yeah, things that interested me.
Well, that's another problem with the school system.
You're basically telling the children to do such and such this week or such and such this quarter.
It's never pursue this to the end of your interests and then stop, which may end up spending a year on doing something.
For instance, our child, we were educating him at home, and basically he's interested in something at some point, and he has 1,500 books already himself, and he spends most of his time, he learned to read at a fairly early age.
And how old is he?
And he's six now.
And...
which at least, of course, I greeted you with his Middle Eastern cookbook.
He's got this cookbook where, of course, that was a fatal thing for my wife once he learned to read because he no longer was stuck being fed what she chose to cook or what he could actually knew existed and therefore asked.
He could look up in some rather complicated recipe book, see a beautiful picture of something which takes about five hours to make, point to it and say, I'd like that.
It's very simple.
And she's quite obliging and has cooked quite a number of these things.
So there's a downside to reading.
But I basically think if you...
It's obviously not suitable for everyone.
I don't mean to disparage forms of knowledge which aren't book-oriented, but if you do have an interest, if you absorb things through reading and have books, you can... To a great extent, I think there's been this fraudulent thing about booksellers have...
tried to make books seem much more recherche, rare.
You know, people will come and say, I'm really interested in such a show, but I could never really be a collector.
People will, ignorant people will come and say, oh, do you have first editions?
Because the book trade has spent all this time promoting first editions as something that, you know, completely artificial concept.
And it intimidates people who might have some chance of being bookish otherwise.
And so I'm certainly an enemy to the publicity that the booksellers
seem determined to promote for the sake of their own interests.
I think if books were... Well, I think an important thing, if you were writing a book about book culture and such, would be worthwhile investigating two things.
One is, you probably know the famous remark of Mark Pattison, who said that no educated man should have less than 20,000 books.
Pattison was the biographer of Cazabon, and rector of Lincoln College, Oxford, died about
1880 or so, supposed to be the Cazabon in George Eliot's Middlemarch.
Anyway, Patterson made this disparaging remark.
Well, the energy of Patterson did have a great many books.
Indeed, I have his set of Saint-Beuve's Coseries du Landis.
And the question, though, is what relation did the 20,000 books Patterson had in 1875 bear to the totality of knowledge at that time?
How many books would one need to have now in order to cover the world of learning to the depth which Patterson's 20,000 did?
And my guess is it's probably something like 400,000.
And even at the time, that was viewed as 20,000 was viewed.
How could you have contempt for those who have fewer books?
So I think that's...
If you're exploring the relations of books to culture and learning, I think some quantification of that could be done in an interesting way.
The other thing is to look at the diminishing audience.
See, this is what I object to in the lowest common denominatorization of American, particularly American culture.
I do think, you know, I'd save an immense amount of time by virtually never even looking at an American commercially published book.
Yours is almost the only commercially published book, a non-university press book I've read in five years.
And Norton occupies, it is Norton that published it, isn't it?
Holt and Norton.
You know, they are representing the elite end of it, but still, you know, you read English academics will constantly be trashing the way their book had to be rewritten for low-grade American, you know, in order to sell 100,000, you have to make it seem even stupider than it is.
Now, that's happening to England is always just five years behind.
I've read some absolutely horrible recent English books that are, again, absolutely the same commercialization.
It seems to me...
though, that this is a completely unnecessary phenomenon.
If you look at the circulation of the large quarterly reviews in England in the 19th century, the quarterly, the Edinburgh, all these things, they'd be printing 20,000, 30,000 to a population vastly smaller than we have nowadays.
And the actual willingness to read really quite serious journalism, which, you know, most of the stuff, again, journalism nowadays, I don't read newspapers either, or television, you know, it's just too amazing...
Well, I should tell you one other thing from Sir Charles Wentworth Dilk, who would, if he hadn't committed adultery, possibly been Prime Minister.
How does he spell his name?
D-I-L-K-E.
He was actually an interesting figure.
His father was Sir Charles Wentworth Dilk, also senior, who was the publisher of Notes and Queries, which was a great monument of Victorian antiquarianism.
And Dilk himself had a lot of Keats relics through his grandfather.
which I think he gave to Keats' house in 1910 or so.
Dilk was a very shrewd, learned, with a certain sort of pungent comments French diplomats will make.
Anyway, he said he had never forgotten the advice that had been given to him when he was young by an old diplomatist, which was this, never read the newspapers if you wish to be able to distinguish between what you know and what you have just read.
And so many people are, when we had this house reconstructed, all the carpenters would buy the New York Times, which admittedly is one of the better papers,
down at the corner with their coffees and read and all they ever talked about.
They had one idea in their, or several, a corpus of ideas in their head, which were just what they had read in the New York Times that day.
I see that actually as an internet information sort of danger.
No one seems obliged to actually know anything and have any command over everything if they've landed on a desert island.
They think it's all out there and that they are on a, well, there's a bookseller in San Francisco who said to a friend of mine who wouldn't, I think I know who he is, but he wouldn't disclose because he knew I would satirize him,
He said, you know, now with his internet stuff, I have all the resources of porridge.
Well, he's got all the resources of porridge, except the brains of porridge.
And I think this is going to breed an enormous amount of conceit among people.
I mean, you can see students know less and less.
The people under, the pre-computer people that I've seen, post-computer people I've seen, the youth,
they really do seem to me to be amazingly ignorant.
Now, my generation is viewed as ignorant by the ones before that, but I think it's very distressing to you.
They have no notion of finding anything, and they don't really think they need to have anything in their heads to begin with.
And their conversation is worth it.
If you can't think to begin with, and you have no facts to exercise your thoughts upon, it's a waste of time to talk to you.
And I find that group of people is steadily increasing.
But what I was going to tell you with the...
circulation of these quarterlies.
You can also look at the decay of publishing.
You can see the sort of books that would be published by a commercial publisher in 19th century England are now only viable with the university press.
And if you look at, university presses don't like to publicize how few copies they print, and the remainder half of them usually,
Many a university press book is printed in only 500 to 1,000 copies.
Or in fact even fewer.
Of course, if they said that, people would with their carefully tooled by the bookseller or carefully schooled by the bookseller's notion of artificial rarities.
They would think, oh, you know, there are only 500.
I'd better grab mine now.
The fact is there are probably only 200 people in the world who actually want the thing.
The university press doesn't want to indicate to its backers, the university, that their books are of such minimal interest.
I mean, you'll get outside...
commentators, ordinary citizens saying, why are we supporting this university press when only 200 people ever buy the book?
In Victorian times, a commercial publisher without subsidy would be, you look at John Murray, publisher of Byron.
Murray published this whole series of books by William Smith of Dictionary of Classical Biography.
They were in fact going to do a dictionary of national biography.
Even they couldn't quite make that remunerative.
It had to be subsidized by Smith, eventually published by him.
But
these books would be published by a commercial publisher, immense investment over a long period of time.
Now, you could get scholars to work for a little less, perhaps.
Printing was a little cheaper.
But nonetheless, these things would be bought by 5,000 or 10,000 people.
Again, if you compare that to the population and extrapolate to today, these are books that are like modern bestsellers, things that would be selling the equivalent of
200,000, 300,000.
And the whole, the Victorian era, I think, is a time when ordinary people had far more intellect, far more sort of, not quite groupish, but there was an esteem that the learned man, the Victorian sage, held on the stage, which doesn't exist anymore.
And of course, America's always had a pronounced anti-intellectual element.
But even so, even allowing for that aberration, we have really, I think, fallen enormously
And what is the... You know, it's just continuing on.
Films, of course, I don't go to films either.
You know, everything is just made for the stupidest, lowest common denominator.
It's unfortunate that democracy is always seen as a... You know, running the world by the rabble.
If you look at Greek democracy, it was really not necessarily... Not released, where I was saying, go back to the Greeks.
But, you know, it's not as though I don't feel...
you know, that we shouldn't be run by people, we should have a representative government, but I do think that if one suddenly allowed, the vote has been again so debased, just like the book, if you simply gave people the chance to vote for four years every 15 years, or three years every 15 years, so you suddenly reduce the voting population to a fifth of what it is at any given moment, you would then suddenly, we have such enormous quantities of people here,
that you feel, I mean, what's the use of the vote except possibly in the Berkeley mayoral election?
It's totally useless once you get up to the representative or presidential level.
If you could artificially reduce the number of people, everyone gets their chance at a certain time, then you could really feel, someone like myself might feel, yes, I should really actually get interested in the issues and actually possibly read a newspaper to make an informed vote.
At the moment, I simply have general principles of life from years of observation, and these people are such cardboard figures that you don't really need to know anything about them.
And, well, at any rate, we're getting far from books.
No, actually, it's pretty interesting.
I'm wondering, though, with that attitude, how is it that you can make a living as a bookseller?
Who likes your books?
Oh, you see, I should, yes.
When I retire, I should tell, I do everything wrong, according to conventional bookselling wisdom.
I'm not in the telephone book.
I'm not in the Yellow Pages.
I'm a member of no trade orgs.
I virtually have no publicity, and you would never have found out for me if it weren't for Peter Howard.
I don't drive a car, which eliminates hauling large numbers of books.
I only print 125 catalogs.
I don't have a computer.
That's the most uneconomic aspect.
I despise computers.
If I had a computer, of course, I could make my catalogs much cheaper.
What I actually do is type up on the typewriter that my father typed his thesis on.
Manual typewriter?
Manual typewriter in old Remington.
It has a great advantage.
We were Canadian originally.
It's an old Canadian typewriter.
It's got pound sign, which is very useful.
It's not usually on an American typewriter, and since I sell a lot of books to England, it's quite helpful.
But I type it out on a slip, and then I have an elderly typist in San Francisco.
It's about 70, and our eyesight's beginning to go, so I may have to face
changes sometimes, but I keep her, she types it up for me, so that costs a lot of extra money, and when you divide out the total, you know, I pay her, say, for typing up a 20-page catalog, I pay her $400 or $500, well worth it, but you divide that out by the $125 that you do, you end up, although my catalogs are relatively poorly produced,
I end up with the postage and everything.
They cost about $3 a piece, which, again, is hopelessly uneconomical.
However, I have... Did Peter show you any of my titles?
Well, they're in the vein... I'll give you some.
They're in the vein of at least the annotations.
You remember there are two, if he gave you the two volumes of Clare Hughes.
The first one had virtually no notes.
And then I realized in sending it off to foreign friends, they wouldn't have any idea what's going on.
Well, I was looking for the author in the first record.
Yeah, it's even anonymous.
Of course, I'm completely behind those scenes, and I mean, I don't publicize myself at all.
But you did indicate your authorship on the back of the second one.
Because some people said, oh, you know, you're, well, Rostenberg and Stern called it a filthy anonymous libel.
So I decided I'd better not be anonymous, although I thought it was perfectly well-known.
I made no secret of my authorship.
The second one, I added notes of the sort that I've written one by one to friends abroad.
And that's very much in the vein of my catalogs.
My catalogs have much to I will sell books for $10 or $12 and maybe have a 15-line description.
However, you know, I shouldn't be the one to say it, but they have an entertainment value beyond that of most people.
people's catalogs.
And the result is that people like to stay on my mailing list.
And my actual response from any given catalog is, I think, far higher than most people's.
I send out 125 of which possibly 25 are just old friends
Many of them have lots of books, but they're in their 70s and aren't buying them anymore, or just friends of mine that I don't expect to buy books.
But of the remaining, so those people get the catalogs free without my worrying about it.
The remaining 100, those people do have to buy books, although I never rub in the fact.
It's fairly obvious when you see only 125 printed and that they perhaps ought to buy a book merely to keep on my mailing list.
So I have, I would say that of the 100 who are supposed to be live customers,
possibly 60, sometimes even 60 or 70 of them actually order from every catalog.
Now, most people don't get that level of response.
Of course, some of the books are already sold, but I tend to sell, of the English language books, I certainly sell 90 or 95 percent.
French, maybe only 60 percent.
Italian, when I have Italian books,
maybe only 20 or 30, but overall I sell certainly 80 or 90% of the books, which again is much higher than most people.
So others are sending out, you know, 1,000 catalogs at much higher prices.
My prices are cheap.
The prices are quite your books.
My books are very cheap.
I largely sell to other booksellers.
And I think that's another aspect.
The bookseller realizes the economics of it and realizes he wants to continue to get my catalogs that he's better...
uh order a book and i but i do also have it um i think also contributing to this is that i say prompt payment expect i don't demand advanced payment but prompt payment and i do get prompt payment even from people who according to other uh booksellers never pay other people in less than six months uh to stay on my mailing list as a source of supply um will pay quite promptly so i don't have any trouble with that and i also um
One further thing is that I have, they're always in a catalog, there's some interesting books that you can sell easily and possibly for vastly more money than I asked.
But there also are some ordinary books.
They don't always have wonderful things.
And if a person has received your catalog and he doesn't want any of the better or more interesting books, and yet he wants to stay on your mailing list, he will always be able to find a bibliography, say, that he, I've always been meaning to buy Young's Bibliography of Memory,
but, you know, just to keep Ian Jackson happy, I'll order it this time, whereas you don't have that feeling with somebody who's just going to keep sending your catalogs whether you order it or not.
And I've... Anyway, I have the customer well-trained, and I have a... I'm an unforgiving... You know, if you don't pay promptly and you don't order books, I basically ditch you from my mailing list, and I don't feel...
And also, the people who've been sort of dickering, these people up at the high end who have grossly overpriced books, they have to take people out to dinner, they have to give them special credit terms, they'll be asked for discounts.
Nobody ever asks me for a discount.
And I find that what I've tried to do is make my books as cheap as I possibly can so that ordinary people can just buy them.
These other people, or not all of them, but some people who have rather inflated prices
are simply, or sell a lot to libraries.
I never sell to libraries.
Well, there are one or two libraries.
I don't sell to libraries.
Libraries take forever to pay.
You can send a lot of catalogs and you never feel obliged to buy.
Occasionally a library has a live person there who's virtually like reaching a collector.
Tony Shipps used to be at the University of Indiana, and he would always order five or ten books.
He took early retirement to work on his.
He's writing a dictionary of all the quotations that have never been identified by anyone else.
He's been doing this for years and years.
He used to always write notes and queries.
Notes and queries is now, of course, a horribly debased journal.
But it used to have a lot of queries that you could get answers.
And Tony Shipp's the only person who ever answers anything.
And he'll have anything from a recognized minor masterwork of English literature to, he'll say, that quotation comes from heartthrobs 1914.
His range of reading is enormously wide.
So he's retired with his pile of last 50 years as a New Yorker and various other things to write this quotation dictionary.
But he would order books.
And when Marcus McCorson was at the American Antiquarian Society, he would order books.
But of course, those people are real bookmen.
Most librarians, unlike my hierarchy, the booksellers, to my mind, although I despise many of them, are certainly at the top.
Collectors a fair way down, and librarians even below.
Librarians, especially in this country, not quite so much in England, and certainly not in the rare books.
But they're really just administrators.
They aren't really bookish people at all.
You look at the glorification of Panizzi.
Panizzi, who, in my opinion, was just an Italian mafioso and always in loggerheads with people like Madden or Edward Edwards, people who had their certain gross personality problems, although I think no worse than Panizzi.
but weren't socially connected.
You know, Penizzi had the charm of being an Italian refugee in the era when every, you know, Englishman was promoting, you know, anti-papal, anti-French, anti, you know, Italian Mazzini and all that, Garibaldi and such.
So he had this aura of the oppressed refugee and good connections with Glaxon.
But what he is is not, he did write some somewhat scholarly works in early youth.
So it was basically a wheeler dealer managed to get large appropriations.
I mean, all credit to him.
But he's the prototype of modern big administrator.
And that's why he gets, when you read the biographies of Panizzi, the modern one by Edward Miller is just a piece.
It's by a British Museum bureaucrat who recognizes the father figure to all other bureaucrats.
And even the British Library is going down the drain.
It's got these, the last generation of scholar librarians has basically quit when it became the British Library instead of being the British Museum.
and uh you know it's run by these people who barely know what they're doing it's much better than in this country but librarians to me are down at the bottom um so i don't sell to them apart from numerous other things although there are i have good friends in libraries but i think they're uh they they would wholeheartedly endorse um uh what i say this whole concept then which you that i
I wasn't going to bring it up, but you mentioned this passion for first editions and condition of the dust jacket and all this other stuff.
But collecting, then, as defined by the ABAA and all these other people on the book fairs, this is not something that you find terribly interesting.
No, I despise it, and I think it an evil thing.
And in fact, if you're starting to study books in culture, this is what directly contributes to the destruction of any notion among ordinary people.
They can buy books, old books.
To many people, particularly in California, an old book is something 30 years old.
And most of this paperback, the yellow highlighter, all these things, just unfamiliarity of books to people.
And it's promoted by this... The book trade has always had to reduce the number of things that are officially collectible.
Now, I recognize that as an economic necessity.
The huge quantity of books...
that are dumped on the market has to be somehow reduced.
If you took every copy of Gone with the Wind that's out there, you'd simply, every bookseller would have five copies on a shelf, and why buy one from me and not from someone else?
You have to squeeze it down to the, you know, the first edition, the first edition with a certain point.
The first edition, of course, has become really first impression.
Really, it's first edition with a number of impressions.
I noticed you use
I think, well, I'm not.
That's fine.
I get it wrong.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
I didn't feel you got it wrong because publishers like to call them additions because, of course, it looks like more.
It does seem as though your book went through three impressions and then had a corrected fourth impression that we could call another edition.
No, actually, I have changes.
Yeah, well, that's what I mean.
It could be either a corrected impression or a new edition, so I wasn't going to.
But there is this general feeling that you can get the same text if it's a completely uncorrected second impression, as it very often is,
It's the identical text, and it's almost worthless.
I think this is destroyed, particularly with modern literature.
It's made a... You know, I'm in favor of people who read books, and modern literature collecting, of course, if you've been the Bokov collector and stuff, you get people collecting books in Russian which they can't read.
I don't think people have much business buying books, except possibly to give them to libraries, that they can't read.
I think...
When you sell books in Greek, then, is it with the expectation that the people that are buying or reading are Greek?
Well, apart from the booksellers, yes.
I don't sell a great many books in Greek, partly because there's a rapacious or somewhat rapacious black oak around the corner who will buy most of the things before anyone else.
No, it just breeds a sort of false...
sense in the collectors, this notion if I have piles of books, I somehow have painlessly absorbed the knowledge simply by looking at the spines or touching them.
And most collectors in my mind are pseudo, well, these are collectors in the ABAA sense, are basically pseudo-scholars.
And I'm interested in this.
Yeah.
See, I sell mostly, of course, professors have gone down the drain.
They used to buy books, but they have very little space with these compulsory retirements, move out of your office.
In the old days when, particularly in England, where you could
you know, live in your rooms for the rest of your life and you had five rooms over the Trinity Gateway or something, you could have 20,000 books and no one would ever kick you out.
Nowadays, somebody retires from being professor or lecturer in English literature and they've got to get rid of all the books in their office because they squeeze down and you find that no one accumulates these 20,000.
They may have 5,000 of which they get rid of 3,000 every so often.
And professors, I think, are, you know, the libraries are too good.
Harney Rosenthal,
His uncle, Leonardo Olschke, came over from Italy to be in the university here, and he no longer had to have this giant private library, which all German scholars used to have.
You needed a private library.
There's a collector, in fact, the only person I really do sell Greek books to, Bill Calder, who's the old father professor of...
The History of Classical Scholarship at the University of Illinois.
He has a very large library.
Started buying it very young at Harvard.
Got wife memberships as birthday presents from various aunts and uncles in, you know, philological societies at a young age.
Knew what he wanted to do.
Also noticed that great scholars, if you don't have a huge amount of money, needed a good library, he feels.
and that a wife and family is incompatible with this.
And he points out, he's got a list of classical scholars with huge libraries, all of whom were bachelors.
And again, if you look at 19th century era when there were large libraries, the number of unmarried people is really quite large.
And it's not, you know, we nowadays look at, say, the huge amount of prostitution in Paris and the number of unmarried people.
A lot of it is pure economics.
It's to set up a family, to get a wife implies having children, implies having to have an estate, implies lots of other things.
Nowadays, we notice, I mean, there are many people who simply get married and don't necessarily think they're going, they think they can still live a pleasant, yuppie lifestyle.
In those days, you really couldn't.
And so, of course, you, and as long as you have large quantities of prostitutes and very own mistresses and stuff, things that cost a certain amount without the family establishment.
And books require, well, of course, they require a huge amount of space.
Most people,
who live in apartments nowadays, can't afford to have a huge quantity of books.
And with the large number that are now printed or available, again, to cover it in even the mildly, the Patersonian way, you need more books than people can afford to have.
So if they don't have any scholarly advancement
They simply, you get some author where you can have it in a bookcase.
I'll collect all of Nabokov, all of Stephen King or something.
And it's also that you, as other people around you, where you're stupider and stupider, you want something you can talk to them about.
Look at Folger and his...
Shakespeare.
Everyone has heard of Shakespeare.
Everyone possibly has even heard of the first folio.
If you go around and at a cocktail party people say, what do you do?
And you say, oh, it's piles of books.
If you can say, oh, yes, I've got a lot of Shakespeare's.
I mean, his problem was, pre-Hinman Collator, is that he had, you know, 79 copies of these things, which did look a bit like overkill.
We may not think now that it is.
Look at the fellow Mayfield, I don't know if he's in your book, who collected Swinburne, you know, to prove that more than 100 copies of, I've forgotten what it was, were ever printed.
And...
You know, that was, in my mind, idiotic collecting.
It's the machine level of, it's not early printing.
What's that?
I don't know.
John S. Mayfield, he should be in Dickinson's.
I think he gave his books maybe to Rochester or something.
He collected other things, but Swinburne and such.
He published, I think, a little book on Swinburne.
You know, it's just, it seems to me it's a pointless, but that sort of thing is encouraged by books.
I mean, Peter Howe is just a toady to his customers, and they want something.
This is why he's gotten into all this trouble with these screenplays.
You know, it's Peter's, I think there's a, I'm not to get into the morality of it, but I think Peter has, he has gone after these things because
A completist customer has to have them.
Peter wants to feel the motto of serendipity books is service.
If it can humanly be God, we will get it for you.
To me, and you know, to some people who are like that go to immense pains and possibly well-deserve the greater amount of money they feel that is due to them.
To myself, I try to sell to people who are possibly halfway capable of getting it for themselves.
who aren't idiots, who want something sensible, and I therefore try to reduce my involvement to a minimum.
I try to provide an honest, clear description of the book.
When it's something that everyone knows about, I don't have a blurb at all.
If it's something that maybe no one has heard of or doesn't realize that this is the first mention of...
cyanide in English literature, I might then point it out and try to sell it.
And my blurbs also, no, no, Aldo.
My blurbs also have an element, since they're largely directed to booksellers, largely directed to booksellers.
Just, Aldo, go inside.
Don't attack this thing.
Come on.
In there.
Did you want lunch?
No?
She's about to make... Aldo, just go.
Come on.
Don't attack, please.
I was talking about... I'm sorry, I arrived, so it was unexpected.
No, she's quite a good cook.
You could have lunch made by her.
Yeah, well, go ahead.
There's going to be one something.
Fine, Anna.
Let's see, we were talking about... Well, we were talking about, we went from John Mayfield to... Oh, my catalogs, yes, not selling to you.
Yes, exactly.
I should show you a few.
I think I might have
I saved a couple of old book dealers with reviews in my catalogs.
In one of them, James Ferguson, I think, says quite correctly, you know, I specialize in constructing immense houses of cards about books.
And there is certainly an element of self-parody or parody of other booksellers.
One looks at the way people sell things, which I'm a keen student of.
Garrison Morton, for instance, if a medical book is in Garrison Morton, it's saleable.
If a medical book isn't in Garrison Morton, it's unsaleable.
In fact, in my last catalog,
I was selling a long run of something relatively unsaleable, the Nobel Prize Lectures.
I bought Melvin Calvin's library, the discoverer of the chemistry of photosynthesis, and he won the Nobel Prize at an early age, and every year afterwards he got it.
So it fills a lot of space.
But I did point out that it does include a couple of items in Garrison Morton.
It's probably because Jeremy Norman couldn't do the last revision.
couldn't find if a person has done their discovery isn't some ethic making paper like the dna where you can actually say this is now collectible um and the simpler person did 15 20 years of researchers reported 200 things and for his cumulative knowledge as with calvin you don't have an actual breakthrough paper there's this physical science aspect of einstein all these you know sudden you're sitting here e equals mc squared you've got this thing you can have it on a piece of paper it becomes a talisman object
And I'm sure this is very characteristic, even no more.
This is a greater significance and reality to the book-collecting mind than something that is simply long and patient labor that can't be crystallized in a purchasable entity.
So you get this fetishistic, fetish object formation for bookselling.
And so you have this long run of these things.
And so one of these things is in Garrison Morton, Eccles' little thing on brain.
So I pointed out in my blurb, I said, booksellers who... This run does contain a few items in Garrison Morton.
Booksellers who spend their waking hours on bended knee before this brazen idol.
Please note.
Well, Jeremy Norman called up and ordered it, the reviser of it.
He said, yes, I agree with you completely about Garrison Morton.
If it had, it was five times the size, it might actually be comprehensive.
So, you know, all of us are playing some sort of game.
Printing in the mind of man...
You know, if you talk to anyone who was involved, or you look at the earlier thing, the thing done by Stanley Morrison in 1940 of the proto-printing of the Mind of Man, which has completely different books.
You know, they both have a Newton Principia and a Gutenberg Bible, but the rest of the thing is much more in the English literature.
The science craze hasn't taken over.
And, you know, this is just checklist, ridiculous checklist, but it's the only way that
Many booksellers, I think of rather dim capacities, have found to convert a teeming mass of books, which are complicated to learn about, into things that are easily saleable.
Well, I was just looking at Rick Watson's catalog here.
This is an excess of deprecation.
But he said, all I know about is expensive books.
And this could be said with more justification by quite a number of other booksellers.
Now, the expense has nothing to do with the...
even the collectability or the value of the book.
To me, I'm trying to sell, since I like to sell, the more a person knows, the better suited they are to be a customer.
I'm not trying to swindle anyone.
Well, I'd be reluctant to say that certain booksellers are trying to swindle.
It's nonetheless, they sell to ignorant people, and they're not telling them every bit of the fact.
Very few booksellers, for instance, feel themselves obliged to tell you that a second edition of a practical bibliography, let's say,
that a second edition vastly enlarged was published, and you really shouldn't waste your money buying this.
To my mind, I tell them that.
Of course, if I had the second edition vastly improved at $100, and I have the first edition, I'll be charging $10 for the not terribly good first edition thought.
I tried to put it in proportion.
I feel if the improved version is worth $100,
then there is a genuine value to the one that isn't quite as good, and it may only be $10.
The person who's trying to sell the not-so-good one for $75 doesn't want to tell you that.
I don't say that's dishonest, but it's very frequently done.
To me, I feel if the person possibly already knows this, he doesn't know it, since I've made the price so low, he knows he's getting something that isn't as good, but he's also not paying very much.
You can see an actual relation.
There's a lot of
A lot of booksellers are trying to get by on... It seems to me too... Well, I shouldn't trash booksellers because actually who'd sell books requires more... who'd sell books well requires... is always grossly underpaid.
Even somebody like H.P.
Krauss, by comparison, I mean, we should be comparing him to the head of the Davis Insurance Company or something.
I mean, you know, he's in many ways a despicable person, but...
Nonetheless, if you rank it with tycoons of business, there's nothing horribly wrong.
And there are other people.
I mean, Arthur Freeman is no doubt paid or evil.
He's now resigned from Horwich.
But Horwich no doubt paid him quite a lot of money.
But Arthur is well worth that.
No, no, no.
I got a fax from him a month or about two weeks ago.
Yeah, he's left.
September 1st.
Really?
Interesting.
I wonder if he's staying in England.
Yeah, he's always staying in England.
Well, they're working on that Collier life, and he's quite entrenched.
Have you visited him at his house?
No, I think quite.
Well, he's got this huge, I mean, he could never use it.
He probably owns the flat that he's living in.
And he's got, he must have at least 15,000 works there.
Steve Weissman's got a new house.
Uh-huh, right, yeah.
Well, they're all, you look at what happens.
Americans, although I've trashed American culture in front of you, which I think is well worthy of trashing, it's simply because we cater to the lowest grade of humanity, do it extremely well, and we can export that, because there's low-grade humanity all across the world.
But we export our finest brains.
If you look at the American booksellers who have gone to England, Rick Watson, Stephen Weissman, Ted Hoffman, Arthur Freeman, Stuart Bennett was there for a while,
We're generally exporting the creme de la creme of American booksellers, whereas they still, without naming any names, they're certainly exported Englishmen to this country.
Don't print this.
I recorded this here.
Don't print it.
But this is just a bit of intercultural politics.
That's fine.
Anyway, I feel no bookseller, however contemptible, is actually making more money than he deserves to make.
You can make $19.50 an hour driving a UPS truck, which, of course, is just a driver's license.
So who am I to say unkind things?
But they're posers.
I guess that's what I just said.
And, of course, in those volumes of Claire Hughes, that's what I'm attacking.
It's not that Stephen Lowenthal is such a total idiot.
It's just that he's a fraud.
And he's a...
I can't print that, you know.
Of course you can't print that.
Well, that's fine.
But I guess what is the impulse for that, to publish that?
To publish my clericies?
Yes.
Oh, well, you see, I'm, you know, I'm like, it's like the emperor's new clothes.
I'm a scourge.
I'm a scourge of other people.
I think, I believe in, I don't believe in, it's not so much insulting people, it's just that I've always, you know the old Greek motto, know they stay out on, know thyself.
Now, I feel that's a very valuable thing for anyone.
To know yourself, you simply don't exist in a vacuum.
You're in relation to lots of other people.
So to know yourself, you have to know your position in relation to others.
Now, you need to take that in a caste system or a class system.
You know, I'm not an aristocrat, therefore I'm nothing.
I don't believe in that.
But when I meet a person and I talk to them, I know just where I stand in relation to them.
I may take a few conversations, or I have to...
read something they've written.
But I have a fairly clear notion, if you ask me about almost any bookseller with whom I have some acquaintance, if you say, where does he rank these booksellers by intellect, rank these booksellers by learning, rank these booksellers by taste, I could do it just like that.
Now, I realize there are not a lot of people who think that way.
To me, here I am, a person who has never promoted himself, published sort of things semi-anonymously.
I won't say where they're printed, but things of mine do appear anonymously,
in certain periodicals.
And, you know, I'm not in the phone book.
You know, no career thing, but I don't sit here thinking, gosh, compared to Jonathan Hill, I'm an absolute nothing.
You know, I know where I stand, and I don't... Too many booksellers simply measure all this in commercial success, and it's not just the money aspect.
It's simply thrilling to them to have a Newton's Principia.
Well, you know, to me, in Principia, if you're actually spending a lot of time investigating the bibliography or if you're a historian of science and you're studying it, fine.
But otherwise, it's just a talismanic object.
And there are many far more interesting small things that have never been written up.
And the booksellers, I chiefly esteem, are those who have taken small thing under-considered... You know, to me, the five... You could print this.
To me, the five greatest booksellers are Oberle and France,
who did a wonderful catalogue of Foulet Malassie, a French publisher.
And, you know, Oberle has a large personality.
And, you know, he's not just interested in books also.
And his thing on Neo-Latin, he's never necessarily taken, he sells, you know, some famous books and such, but he's never taken them from an obvious point of view.
I think John Collins at Mags, John Collins knows natural history books better than anyone around, and yet he's still selling
10, 20-pound books.
I know many accountants don't like this, but John Collins is willing to spend time investigating some minor thing that has no commercial value.
He's also looked at books in, you know, he has a, you know, he's seen books at libraries also.
You know, so many of these booksellers, they act as though merely because you've never handled a Newton Principia commercially that you would have never even seen one.
If you spend time at libraries, the Berkeley Library has a superb collection of books.
Although, again, it's going horribly downhill.
It's put all its good books in store, all its books printed before the last 20 years are in storage, and it's gotten almost useless nowadays.
You know, you can see by going to libraries, and after I graduated, that's why I was wondering about the missing years when you asked me when I graduated, when I started selling books.
For about three years between graduating, I spent all my time looking at all the natural history books at the rare book room in the biology library.
So I've seen, although I've
I've never owned more than a handful of color plate botanical books.
I've actually seen, although not in multiple copies as someone who's been in the business 40 years has, but I probably, for someone who handles, you know, a copy of Curtis's Foreign Landonensis twice in a lifetime, I've seen just as many color plate books as those people have, and yet those people don't
They think the only way you can see those books is to actually sell them.
It's the auction house.
You see the same thing with our commissorship.
There are people who, Francis Haskell, there was an article by him not long ago, where we all know many a collector who will go to, you'll be seen in Bond Street, but would never be seen at the National Gallery.
They're only interested in if it's purchasable.
And I think that's a great problem with many collectors.
They never go to libraries.
They don't know what there is there.
And yet they're only interested in it from what they can buy out of a catalog or see at a book fair.
There are many a bookseller like that.
There are booksellers who specialize, I won't name any names, but there's one who I was disgusted with who specializes in what I consider an extremely narrow field and was completely unaware of a number of standard bibliographies because they're somewhat scarce.
But if you went to any library, any library has those, or a decent research library, has all of those.
You should immediately go and see those things, know what's there.
But no, their curiosity is entirely limited by commercial considerations.
John Collins has never had that at all.
He used to work at Korich.
He did wonderful catalogs when DeBelder was buying all those books because DeBelder supported the department.
They'd go, or Hugh Fattorini, those people would buy the big, expensive books.
So John Collins simply got out his typewriter,
catalogued every, well, of course, used to have huge numbers of old students to distribute things, and their naturalist department had lots of things worth a pound, two pounds, ten pounds, but they'd never gotten around to catalog.
Those catalogues in the late 60s, early 70s are superb.
John Collins was the same way he catalogued all the Signet Library when he moved to Sotheby's, or the Plesch simply got his typewriter and went out, and the rate at which he can catalog intelligently, you know, sort of slapdash offhand commentary is really extraordinary.
Anyway, I've given you overlay, John Collins,
I said five.
Five.
Rowan Gibbs, unknown to almost anyone, Rowan Gibbs is in Wellington, New Zealand.
He is a lapsed classicist like myself.
I think he was going to do a thesis on poor Apollo, who was a sort of fake, well, it's, they're,
There was a Bollingen edition by Boas, edited by Boas, but otherwise Horopalo was irrelevant.
He was very influential on iconography.
At any rate, he is very learned in classics.
He specializes in New Zealand books, collects a lot of New Zealand fiction, sells books again in what I esteem as its place.
sense of the game of, I dislike A. Edward Newton, his book collecting game, but book selling can be viewed as a game.
It's reeling the person in, never cheating them.
Remember when the Rosenbachs would never sell a book to a customer if he was drunk?
Well, my notion is never sell to them by lying to them.
But I, in fact, described in one of my catalogs, cataloging is the art of making a book seem more desirable than it really is without actually lying about it.
And
Many people need to be just positioned just in the right way.
It's a sort of complicity about it.
They know they're being positioned there, yet they're willing to have that done to them.
You notice that from the rare instances when I see news, largely these people started blaring out their radio at 6 in the morning.
I've overheard these news programs where the news reports it and then say, we know this is sort of disinformation.
It's really being distributed by Prince Charles so that he can position himself as the goody-good effect.
So you get this sort of this wonderful...
place where you're making the audience into a critical, if you know this is a forgery, it's different from not knowing it's a forgery.
We can still esteem it as a forgery.
Or wasn't that a British Spanish forgery, Wise's forgery?
They're esteemed and they're still valuable on a completely different level from the original chicanery.
So Rowan Gibbs is a master at positioning a book which no one would have believed had a New Zealand connection.
in a very possibly far-fetched, but he knows New Zealand books extremely well.
He will spend, he's uneconomical.
I guess that's another aspect which I esteem in these people.
It's not merely the five greatest booksellers.
It's those who will cut their own throat a little or will be uneconomically discursive about their books.
And we'll have a long description about a cheap book and a very short description about a very expensive book, which the real money boy,
of the business would never dream of doing because it confuses the rich customer.
The big expensive book is supposed to be in a box with a nice long note and a lot of citations to make it look, and they don't want to believe some little.
And of course those people don't have the learning if they spend all their time reading Printing in the Mind of Man to do anything.
Rowan Gibbs spends an enormous amount of time reading.
He has a wonderful collection, which I think he may have sold, of Swiss Family Robinson.
Again, he's discovered interesting textual peculiarities, but in fact the whole thing has been partially rewritten.
Um, he has, there's a New Zealand National Bibliography, which he, the last five pages of one of his catalogs simply listed addenda and coragenda to the New Zealand National Bibliography, a free gift to the world.
Um, he's, I think, being pillaged by there's going to be a New Zealand, I think, companion to New Zealand literature.
Those people get a back file of his catalogs and just go through.
You can find immense, uh, he will, he did a catalog of, uh,
early printed books where he had a conjectural emendation of Virgil that no one has ever proposed.
To me, that's the kind of bookselling to do.
It requires a lot of intelligence and learning, and it requires a disinterestedness that very few people have.
So I'm now down to overlay John Collins and—well, of course, I have to say Arthur Freeman.
you know, one of the most intelligent and learned booksellers around.
And you wouldn't, I mean, Arthur Freeman is probably my one choice that everyone would agree.
Well, Oberle, I suppose, although Oberle certainly is not.
I mean, there are people who don't respond to that sort of personality.
I don't think Arthur has too many enemies, and I think you get no quarrel.
So I don't need to, good wine needs no bush.
I needn't promote Arthur Freeman.
Um...
Maybe I shouldn't have said five.
I mean, there are a number, I hate to offend many friends, there are a number of sort of good high second string people who are, to me, they're free of the money-grubbing, careerist, I only handle the finest books, the finest manuscripts, or things that have been codified by others.
So have some independence of judgment.
I know after you've left, I will remember I've eliminated someone I really should.
Well, I will say Andrew Jones, again, heard of by no one.
In fact, I don't know that you should publicize these names, but some of these people, they put out rather small numbers of catalogs, and they actually, also, they're all notable for having quite cheap books, and so I'm able to buy a number of things from these people.
Andrew Jones' elapsed history dawn, that's, I think,
or St.
Catherine's in Cambridge, who sells academic history books out north of Oxford.
He's, the quantity of annotation, I mean, he obviously knows academic history backwards, but he's a very opinionated, conservative person.
I like to think I've corrupted at least, I can't claim I've corrupted John Collins,
I think I've certainly corrupted both Andrew Jones and Rowan Gibbs.
Both of them have become more discursive in the last five or ten years, I think.
Perhaps we're, you know, it's foliadeur or something.
Yes, and I've noticed, I would say with Andrew Jones, he has become, of course, I encourage him into becoming more, interestingly, longer annotations.
But I did put out a volume which I, which you would, well, I don't know that I will show it to you, but...
There is a third volume of Clara Hughes, which was never published.
I gave it out this New Year's.
I published it under... It was published anonymously, although since it wasn't ever sold, it was always given by me to friends, so my name does appear on it.
Do you have one?
I have a copy.
I think I have one copy left.
I don't... Perhaps I will allow you to glance at it.
Because it was distributed privately, I was a little more free with my commentary.
It's called Parnasse Erotique des Libraires.
It's nothing about...
You know, it's not always sexual, but the erotic connections of various booksellers.
There's no scandal in it.
Because, again, I live a very retired life, and I don't, you know, these people, there are many, Peter Howard dines once a month with these various other booksellers.
There are ABA meetings there I was going to.
I'm really never, I never wish to have information that I can't print.
So I'm very, it's like Archbishop Waitley who said, never, never, if you tell me, don't tell me afterwards that you want somebody to keep me to keep this information you've just told confidential.
Yeah, exactly.
See, you should have said it.
I'm not saying I follow Waitley.
But one should always say, don't repeat anything and get the person to agree to it.
If you do it afterwards, Waitley was famous for always saying, no, I shall do with that information what I see fit.
But, you know, I don't actually, don't worry about the Haven no more, because I don't really care about
evidence that I can't use.
I am very much in judging people, which I do, admittedly, Peter will tell you, I'm a severe judge of people, but I try to be fair, I try to bend over backwards, let them hang, give them enough rope, my enough rope theory of human relations.
But I always want evidence that's good enough for a courtroom or for myself if I were a hanging judge.
And so I'm not interested in, you know, so-and-so sort of thing, so-and-so.
If you can actually spot a person selling a defective book after you point it out to him, defective, you've got the goods on that person.
And I feel I've never, with all these people that I've come down severely on in those Clarehues, I could certainly give, in fact, the notes are very often much too kind.
I mean, I've got to the where of life.
When the first one came out, Peter said, oh, this is wonderful, I'll buy a hundred copies.
Then talked to his lawyer who said, you can't possibly sell this.
Lou Weinstein could sue you, for instance.
You know, Peter, for instance, when I say Lou Weinstein just loves to write the dollar sign, for him it really puts the icing on pricing.
Peter said, well, you're suggesting two things.
You're saying that Lou Weinstein's books are overpriced, which is true, as Peter said.
And all he cares about is money, which Peter also says is true.
Don't quote this again as Peter having said it.
But, you know, the fact that... Trust me, I don't need a libel to see.
Right, okay, exactly.
I'm a very big target.
You know, Lou Weinstein is a privilege.
You know, I don't dislike Lou Weinstein, at least.
He's a very genial, unpretentious person.
He's selling books to a lot of ignorant people in Southern California, where the intellectual level...
is lower and the money is much higher than it is in the Bay Area.
And, you know, he adapts to the surroundings.
There's always been a lot of hucksters in Los Angeles.
But I don't condemn that.
But Peter's lawyer immediately pointed out to them, Lou Weinstein could sue you for this.
And Rostenberg and Stern, I don't think, could... Oh, actually, again, I think I can influence Rostenberg and Stern.
Rostenberg and Stern, Kevin O'Donnell got it autographed by everyone else.
send it to Rostenberg and Stern, or maybe just to Xerox, to ask them to autograph it.
And they wrote back to him saying they refused to have anything to do with a filthy anonymous label.
This may have indicated to them that some remarks on lesbianism should be made.
Now, I'm not in the least condemning lesbianism.
What I condemn about Rostenberg and Stern is their constant self-promotion.
And it's fingerspits and confused.
Well, they deny it, too, by the way.
Yeah, of course they do.
Yes, but they've only denied it in this latest book, which is post-
my volume.
And I think I could perhaps claim credit for their willing denial because no one else has ever, you know, they've got this self-promotion of, well, as Barney Rosenthal says, you know, they're constantly saying, you know, they were, you know, discrimination against Jews and that Thorndike wouldn't give them, pass them for a PhD at Columbia.
As Barney says, she just didn't know Latin well enough.
But they've got this mythology.
If you're a woman, if you're a Jewish, you have this.
And it's not to deny that women don't have a worse.
There are hardly any women in the book trade.
I mean, that's something one could certainly investigate.
Why are there virtually no female booksellers?
Why are there virtually no collectors?
Women buy new books.
They don't buy old books.
Or, you know, again, to get back to Rustenburg and Stuart, it's certainly true that in academic life, including at Columbia, Jews were certainly discouraged, but the sort of professor who was regularly quoted in the 20s and 30s as telling a promising Jewish student who, be it noted, they did not refuse to teach this person.
They merely gave them the fact that you're going to have a hard time getting a job at a university because they have a quota about hiring Jews.
Being simply honest about a person, in retrospect, 50 years later, these people are viewed as sort of trying to dampen... I mean, Rostenberg is a complete charlatan.
What I dislike essentially about these two women is they're a pair of self-advertisers.
It's like Tweedledum and Tweedledee.
They go into a bookshop and they act as though they found something at Courage that Courage didn't know was there.
I'll explain to you later.
And so it's, look at this, Leona, look at this, and these sleuthing caps they wear.
I mean, it's completely in this aspect of the ABA, which I despise, making a sort of toy game out of book collecting, as though it isn't serious, as though it doesn't have a scholarly dimension.
They're sleuthing.
I despise the words.
I mean, they're our modern representative, A. Edward Newton, who was also an idiot.
And sort of by the tingling feeling, as though they are the only one, you read their books,
They visited that next-to-last thing that was well-published, collecting old books in the New World or something or other.
They visited people like Jean.
They visited E.P.
Birchman.
they visited for senior, all these people, do they tell you anything about these people?
I mean, what would we give for an account, you know, a 10-page account of the personality of E.P.
Goldschmidt?
You don't get it from these people.
They've got their big wedger.
They're simply looking at books which they think they know more about than Goldschmidt, and they found them.
And it's this narcissistic, and the two of them have been bonded together.
I mean, I think it's been terrible for the two of them.
That thing in the actual, I haven't read the latest book, but in the review you saw where Stern's father had a heart attack when she announced she'd gone out on a date with a boyfriend.
I mean, these things are just, you throw up your hands.
The fact is, of course, what I'm telling you about Rosenberg and Stern, it's said in private by absolutely everyone.
Trust me, it's not likely to make it.
First of all, the outside work.